>> Brian Holt: My name is Brian Holt and
welcome to the complete intro to SQLite.
Please head to SQLite.holt.courses and
you will end up on this website
the complete intro to SQLite.
And you can see here I have 2 computers
here so What you see right here is
literally my notes, so
you can feel free to follow along with me.
You can copy and paste the code examples,
sometimes it's fun to
actually type them out, but it's all here,
so feel free to share this.
This is open source, yeah, cool.
So as way of introduction
of how to use this website.
If I click into one of these sections, you
can see this is the welcome section and
the intro lesson.
If you click in there, you'll see,
up here, it'll say welcome intro, so
you can kind of figure out
where I am in the course.
If you wanna jump around in the video, or
you wanna you just lost track of
where I am really easy way to tell.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
let's talk about SQLITE.
I'm teaching this for Frontend Masters.
Thanks Frontend Masters for
inviting me back yet again.
And today we're gonna learn
a little bit about SQL.
There's no SQL experience
required to start this class.
We're gonna talk about
the core features of SQLite,
we're gonna do a little bit of building
some Node.js applications with SQLite.
We'll talk about what's unique to SQLite,
some advanced features with JSON,
and then we'll talk about
what the future holds for
SQLite with things like Lightstream,
LightFS, and LibSQL.
All things that we will talk
about when we get there.
Who is this course for?
Hopefully it's for you.
This course is most helpful.
If this is not your first
programming exposure,
a little bit of JavaScript
would go a long way.
I don't expect you to be like Node
developers for this, except for
maybe the one little exercise
we have a node, that's fine.
I've taught a few courses
that would help you,
if you wanted to brush up
before you start going forward.
Wanna be intro to Web Dev,
intro to Linux and the CLI,
if you've never used a CLI before.
And then we will use a little bit of
containers at the very end of the course.
You don't have to have use container,
you don't even have to
really kind of follow along.
You can just kind of watch at that point,
so
that's more optional, but
I do think it's a cool course.
Cool, I have also taught
the complete intro to SQL,
which is really the complete
intro to Postgres.
So if you If you're interested
in learning more about that,
I have a whole thing on that as well.
They both cover the basics of SQL, but
this one will obviously get more into the,
better parts of Postgres as well.
>> Brian Holt: Who am I?
That guy, if that wasn't obvious I'm
a staff product ,manager at Neon,
which is a serverless Postgres company.
So you can tell that I kinda like
databases, this Neon is now my third
database company that I've worked at, and
fourth, if you wanna count, Microsoft.
So I like databases, I keep working on
them, and I get excited about them.
So I guess I'm just gonna
keep going with it.
I've been a PM and
an engineer at SQLite Cloud,
Snowflake was the other database company
that I worked at, Stripe, Microsoft,
LinkedIn, Netflix, Reddit and
some other smaller startups I've been
teaching at front of masters for
it's probably been about a decade now.
And I'm gonna keep doing
it until they kick me out,
this might be the time, we don't know.
Recently moved to Sacramento,
previous to that, lived in Salt Lake,
San Francisco, Seattle.
I was born and raised in Montana, and
I also lived in Italy for a while.
And feel free to catch up with me on
the socials, I left my links there.
Do recognize that I am terrible
at answering DMs, but yeah,
please feel free to tweet at me.
>> Brian Holt: I always get these
questions, so I just try and
answer them up front of like, Hey Brian,
what technologies are you using?
I will be using VS Code,
I used to work on VS Code, so
I did a blood oath that I must
continue using VS Code, or
the ghost of Bill Gates will haunt me.
I'm using Firefox, Chrome's cool too,
I just like supporting Firefox.
I am using the default terminal app here,
but there's lots of other cool ones.
I have Docker desktop installed,
I'll be using that for Docker.
Here's all the themes and
fonts that I am using.
They are all linked there,
feel free to click through those if
you're curious about any
of these things work.
Inevitably, there will be mistakes on
this website, feel free to file issues.
Feel free to open poll requests,
they're all very appreciated.
We do our best.